=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Module::Install::ManifestSkip - Generate a MANIFEST.SKIP file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use inc::Module::Install;

    all_from 'lib/Foo.pm';

    manifest_skip;

    WriteAll;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module generates a C<MANIFEST.SKIP> file for you (using
L<Module::Manifest::Skip>) that contains the common files that people do not
want in their C<MANIFEST> files. The SKIP file is generated each time that you
(the module author) run C<Makefile.PL>.

You can add your own custom entries at the top of the C<MANIFEST> file.
Just put a blank line after your entries, and they will be left alone.

This module also adds 'MANIFEST' to the C<clean_files()> list so that
C<make clean> will remove your C<MANIFEST>.

=head1 OPTIONS

If you don't plan on adding anything to the stock MANIFEST.SKIP and just want
C<make clean> to delete it, say this:

    manifest_skip 'clean';

=head1 THEORY

One school of thought for release management is that you never commit
your C<MANIFEST> file. You just generate it using C<make manifest>, right
before releasing a module, and then delete it afterwards.

This is good because you never forget to add new files to your C<MANIFEST>.
The only problems are that you always need to generate a C<MANIFEST.SKIP>
file, and you need to add C<MANIFEST> to your clean_files, or delete it by
hand. This module does these things for you.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item *

L<Module::Manifest::Skip>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Ingy döt Net <ingy@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2010, 2011. Ingy döt Net.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.

See http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html

=cut
